# getting-started with the Ridge API

Welcome to the Ridge developer API guide.  This guide will explain the core concepts necessary for using Ridge resources


The Ridge API is a RESTFUL API that uses JSON encoding. All API requests must include a token in the header for authentication. The token is obtained using the Ridge console, and placed in the HTTP Authorization request header:
Authorization: Bearer <Token>


## API Conventions
### Resources identifiers
Ridge resources can be identified by
- name - a unique identifier for the resource which can be configured by the user
- Id -  a unique identifier which is generated by Ridge and may not be modified


Examples:
Access a resource using a name:


GET  https://api.ridge.co/iam/v1alpha/orgs/example-org/members/my-name

Access a resource using an id (prepended by a `@`):


GET  https://api.ridge.co/iam/v1alpha/orgs/example-org/members/@4536

Access all resources is done by placing `-` , for example, to get the list of members of all groups:


GET https://api.ridge.co/iam/v1alpha/orgs/example-org/groups/-/members

> Note: The api version in the examples throughout this document is set to v1alpha.

Parameters in the JSON body with the _path suffix should be set with the part of the  resource’s path that follows the API ‘s version.
### Display Name
Each Ridge resource can have a display_name that is used only for display (UI) purpose.
Upon resource creation, the  display_name, by default, is equal to the name.
display_name may include up to 512 Unicode characters, include up to 64 lowercase latin letters, numbers or dashes.

> Note: display_name is not mandatory and if not defined, name will be displayed instead
